# Version 3.0

## [Release 3.0.0](https://github.com/JSideris/DOThtml/releases/tag/v3.0.0)

*Release Date: July 16, 2019*

### Added Routing, Router Outlets, and SPA Navigation

- Added a built-in `dot.router` component, which generates a `<dothtml-router>` element that can asynchronously load pages.
- `dot.navigate` can be used to navigate routes.

### Re-did Data Bindings

- Removed the `dot.binding` function.
- Bindings (via `bindTo`) will now update your model directly, instead of creating a special model-like object who's value is bound to the target inputs.
- `bindTo` will accept your model as a first argument, and the name of the property to update as a second parameter.
- If the property being referred to is a function, the function will be called, and passed an event object containing information on the updated element.

### Changes to Components

- Removed constructor function from components (just use the builder instead).
- Components will now accept a ready function as a third parameter (as an alternative to passing in the JSON object with name/builder/ready fields).
- Can't define components that conflict with names existing in DOThtml.
- Ability to delete a component.

### Changes to Built-In Functions

- Added an `i` argument to the `each` function.
- Renamed `acceptcharset` to `acceptCharset`.

### Legacy Cleanup

- Added better error messages in the development version.
- Removed `appendToId` and `writeToId` functions.
- Removed option to suppress warnings/errors (use minified DOThtml instead).
- Potential bug fixes on the internals for custom attributes accepting inline functions. (Attribute functions may not have access to an `event` variable).

### Added Copyright Notice & License

- Copyright notice must be preserved in all copies of DOThtml.
- Added an MIT license.

### Rebuilt DOThtml website

- Website now uses the new routing component.
- Added documentation pages.